Hello everybody and welcome back.
Now whether you're making a very simple spiral staircase like this or perhaps something a bit more extravagant
like this well duplication is key to being able to make these things very very quickly.
Let's go find out some more now before we get going.
I want to go into this well in a little bit more detail because I know some of you will be thinking
how are we going to make that with what we've learned so far.
Well if we have a closer look and I've left it like this deliberately I don't want to see anybody's
work like this.
We have a look over in the outline.
Even though is grouped into these separate collections which we'll deal with later on you see here as
well.
If we open up that everything is a cube.
I think literally everything is a cube if I scroll down here.
Take this tile for example it is a cube that's been squished down this piece of wood.
This support again is something that started in originated as a cube and there's lots of detail in here.
There's slats holding up the tiles on the roof.
The tiles are all slightly higgledy piggledy.
I'll show you how to do that as we go through this lecture.
But the other thing to bear in mind is I'm going to be caught out with this several times I'm sure.
But we need to sorts out on naming right from the very beginning.
If these were called something else like if I click on the tile here if it was actually called tile
rather than cube dot 1 0 6 I would be able to search for it.
And that would have been really useful because I really wanted to show all of these colored in but I
can't do that now I really can't be bothered going through and selecting each one individually.
Now take a long time to do anyway without any further ado let's hop on over and into a brand new blend
default.
Okay.
So welcome to the default blend seen now in front of us here we've got our cube we've got a camera and
a lamp all of these objects can be duplicated.
You can do this under the object menu.
So with the cube selected we're going to go to objects and we can see we've got two types of duplication.
We can duplicate them or we can linked duplicate them.
The main difference between this is if you link something it means you can change the properties of
the object and all of the other ones that are linked will inherit it's.
We'll use those more later on but for the moment we're going to use duplicate objects.
Now if I just go ahead and click on that you see we get a nother cube straight away.
Now we can place that's all we can be more precise.
We can lock it to the x axis and move it along slightly.
So there we go we've got two objects next to one another and cube 0 0 1 is a duplicate of this one here
the original cube.
And of course if we duplicate I'm going to you shift and D this time to duplicate this will be called
cube 0 0 2.
Now you can name these over in the outline itself.
We can just click on this and call it a cube or whatever.
They must have unique names that is important.
But generally I like to name them over here in the objects properties we see here also says cube.
We can click in here and let's call it a stair.
And there are going to be multiple stairs.
Okay.
So might be worthwhile now we find it's there getting rid of these other two cubes.
Now I'm going to hold down shift select both of them and I'm going to press the delete key on my keyboard
just to get rid of them.
They're out of the way now without any confirmation.
That's one of the differences if I'd use the x key we get this of confirmation box up.
Okay.
So now that I've done that we've got this stair here and that's not exactly a stair yet but we can go
ahead scale on the z axis by maybe point 1 to get it really flat and let's scale it on the x axis by
point five to get it more like a slab.
Okay.
That's looking pretty good.
We're going to look at it exactly from the side.
So I'm going to go over to my little gimbal over on the top right.
I'm going to click the X..
I could have also press the number pad 3 if I wanted to.
And now I can zoom in.
Go GZ and just lift it up.
So it's roughly sitting where z equals zero.
Now I've done that.
I can go around to the top view and zoom out slightly and the reason why I'm on the top view here is
I can duplicates is gonna be called stare dot 0 0 1 in this case.
I'm fine with them being appended 0 0 1 0 0 2 et.
And I'm going to move this across ever so slightly and then going to rotate it.
Now I could rotate it by an arbitrary amount or I could be really precise about it and work out how
many stairs I need going round.
In this case I'm going to rotate it on the z axis I am going to Lockett's which should be off from this
view.
But just to be nice about it and I'm going to rotate it by 30 degrees.
Now we can see it's rotated the wrong 30 degrees it's gone counter clockwise so I'm gonna press the
minus key and that will make it rotate minus 30 and then your press return and I'm going to move it's
roughly the right position.
It's not ideal maybe a little shallower in future but longer it's just whizz round to the side view
and go GZ and lift it up.
So here we go we've got the first couple of steps coming together now you can just continue that.
So we can go so we can go shift in D and duplicate lift that one up ever so slightly sets the right
high was round to the top rotate it by another minus 30 and then go g and move it roughly into the right
place and then we go we can start building these steps up.
Now one of the things that you may immediately figure out is hang on a minute can I just select all
three and then duplicate all of them.
You're right you can.
And then we can whiz round to the side.
Lift it up to roughly the right height.
Go round to the top and move it around.
And here we're going to have to rotate it by I think 90.
There we go.
We've got a much tighter spiral staircase than I had in the preview.
Why don't we go ahead and add into here another mesh object a cylinder perhaps and scale that down and
then scale it on the z axis and just make that's a bit bigger than whiz round to the top and place it
in the center of all of these.
Oh we shall be roughly there on the sky.
It's up again.
And there we go.
We've got a spiral staircase going around this pillar.
Now that is a bit tall so we go scale set and just make it a bit smaller again.
Mango GZ and lift it's up and the final thing I might want to do here is go ahead and add in a ground
plane.
So I'm going to go shift in a and add in another mesh type which is a plane I'm just going to scale
that up.
Now you may notice that I've not applied any of my transforms at the moment and that's because I'm just
playing as we're going along normally.
I would suggest applying transforms especially if you've scaled things as we've gone.
So here for instance if I had gone control an A and applied this rotation and scale immediately then
the next time we go through I could do that or I could select everything and also apply the rotation
scale and then we should find if we have a look over in the transform whenever we select any of these
objects we can see that the rotation is 0 and the scale is one which means that those have been applied.
Finally this plane here I did digress a little while so I can do is go straight over to its properties
and name it ground you know something useful right from the very beginning.
If you carry on and make a real mess of things is very hard because now in the outline a I can search
for stair and there we go.
I can select by holding down shift all of the stairs very quickly if you had many many stairs that would
be a real pain as well.
So how about we group these stairs in their own collection.
Well with them selected what else we can do is press the M key over in the 3D Ed window and create a
new collection and we can call that collection stairs.
Once we've done that we need to click okay and then we can see we've got a scene collection of which
there is one collection called stairs.
And if I minimize that down I'm going to clear my search first.
We can see that the stairs themselves all of those mesh objects are grouped in their own collection.
And that really does help manage your objects especially when you're going to have hundreds and hundreds
in more complex models being able to group them into those collections is really important for managing
your scene.
So we've got the organization and the naming very very important and with that it's time for your challenge
Okay everybody see your challenge for this lecture is to make a simple objects or scene with primitives.
Now remember you can rotate scale and move your pieces around once you place them in your scene.
And of course repeated items you can just duplicate again and again very useful.
Remember you can also select multiple things at once to duplicate them.
If it's part of a larger object.
Now if you complete a simple object with ease why do you try something else more challenging.
Straightaway it's important to dive in straightaway and continue those skills.
Well like the well I showed you earlier on would be a great example.
Something with more objects in a bit more difficult to manage.
Or you can block out a more complex scene whether that's an interior or exterior scene perhaps one that
you want to work on more as you develop your skills throughout the course Paul's video now and give
that a go Hello everybody and welcome back.
I'm really looking forward to seeing what you've come up with.
I'm going to go ahead now and hop on over into blender and create my well scene again.
Okay everybody this is going to be really quick.
I hope to go and do this.
I'm going to make the well that we saw earlier.
So I'm going to start off with my cube here and scale on the second the z axis pi point one ans or I
could have.
Now I'm going to scale it.
Everything everywhere.
By point 1 and scale it on the y axis by 2 so it's more like a brick.
I'm going to zoom into that brick and go Gee Z.
Point nought five because then I think no no it's not.
So I thought that would have been on the ground perfectly but it's not going to lift up to around there.
And that's good starts.
Now I'm going to go and look at this brick from the very top and I'm literally going to duplicate it
rotate it by 30.
Lift it up to roughly here and I'm going to continue doing that but I'm going to select the second one
duplicate that rotate those by 60 and then puts it in roughly the right position that's almost there
now we're going to duplicate again rotates by a hundred and five.
No no no no no.
120 height by 120.
Now that I've know where these have disappeared off to they're all the way over there.
Let's bring them back in so rotate by 1 20.
There we go.
And then we can plot that roughly in the right place.
I'm just going to duplicate those again because I think if we go ahead I'm gonna save my file as we
go as well and I'm going to call it.
Well save.
Okay so rotate by 120 and I think I might be wrong.
I think we're done.
Excellent.
So that's the basis for the well at the bottom looking good so far.
I'm just going to click and box select everything.
Now there is some intersection here.
That's something we do need to concern ourselves with but not really at this stage.
But what we can now do is whiz round the side duplicates.
Lift it up.
I'm not going to be exact with my placement.
You will notice that things in the real world are not precise.
So it's important that we're not precise here either get a hold down shift and select multiple areas
and rotate them on the z axis.
And I don't have to be precise there because I'm going to get straight back in and rotate ever so slightly
so that none of these breaks line up with one another.
That's that's not going to be convincing and you might argue that this is a little over the top.
And you know what you might be right but in this case that now looks much much better.
Now again we've got a little bits of intersecting going on here.
I'm not going to worry about that for the moment.
There are ways around it but again it's it's just the basics here.
Now the first thing that I've done and I can slap my wrist for is everything is called cube.
So I'm going to slap my wrist there.
But before I do anything else I'm going to highlight all of these confirm that they're all selected
and move them to their own collection and call it Rick.
Well at least then I'll be able to select all of these individually because they're all grouped together.
Now the next thing that I might want to do is go mesh cube skate it's everywhere.
But the z axis.
It's nice and so I'm going to look at it from the side and lift it up to roughly the right place and
I'm going to git all before duplicate it.
I'm going to cool this wooden supports or wooden frame I'm going to call it the frame.
So this is going to be the originating piece and then everything else was actually come from this.
So I can duplicate that and I'm going to pop it I'll make sure it's selected duplicate and pop it roughly
over the other side in the right place and put duplicates again rotate this around.
Now I'm gonna be precise and go 90 degrees and then scale this up and then we look around and we see
we've got something like that looking pretty good so far.
So that's again.
Look at it from this side duplicates rotate 90.
Lift it up to about here.
And I'm gonna scale that's on the y axis only so it's gonna make it longer than it was round to.
I'm gonna duplicate that and you can see here that we just repeat this over and over again.
So I'm gonna disappear for a few minutes whilst I do that and I'll just speed up the video and I'll
see you back again shortly.
And there we go.
I'm pretty happy with how that's turned out.
I don't know what you've done with yours but I'm really looking forward to seeing what you've made.
I can see a few things here that I tweak and improve but overall this is a really good example of how
you can really rapidly produce objects in your world by just duplicating and doing no actual modelling.
How cool is that.
Well anyway that's the solution for my challenge on this lecture.
It doesn't matter whether you've kept it basic or you've gone to this level or even beyond.
I can't wait to see what you've produced.
So please do save your files and keep them because we're going to get them ready to present soon so
you can share your work with both me and your fellow students.
Until then I'll see you in the next lecture.